[MUSIC]
>> Kent C. Dodds: The next thing
we're gonna talk about is testing.
So how many people here have used
Mocha before in their lives?
Okay, sweet.
Jasmine, anybody use Jasmine?
What other, QUnit?
Yeah, good old days.
They're still running strong, right?
So cool, yeah, so I prefer Mocha.
I don't think I've ever used QUnit,
actually, but I like Mocha.
I also like AVA, AVA's great, too.
I like Chai, when I use Mocha,
it's really great assertion library, but
you also have the expect library,
that's a good one.
So what we're going to use in this
project though is Mocha and Xhai.
We're only going to need a couple of tests
because like goodness gracious we only
have two points of contact with our API.
And that's actually kind of an argument
for micro libraries is that unique random
array is so awesome because it is
fully tested, 100% code coverage.
So we can just use it and
then we don't have to test it.
We can just rely on that working and
then we can test the stuff
that is important to us.
So, for this exercise,
we're going to install those dependencies.
Like I said, you don't actually have to do
that because those have been installed for
you already.
But then we'll create a src/index.test.js,
we'll create a test/mocha.opts
to configure Mocha a little bit.
And then we'll update our package
scripts with test and watch:test.
The watch:test being there so
that we can do like TDD and
stuff, which, is quite handy for
developing libraries.
So, any questions before we get into it?
Okay, I forgot to do this.
Any questions?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, so actually,
make sure that you're up to
date on the linting branch
before you get started,
then we'll go ahead and
create that new file, index.test.js.
We're not actually going to
test the library right here.
We're going to get to a checkpoint and
that checkpoint is,
does my test runner work?
So let me just review my notes here and
make sure I don't get to far
off of where we're going here.
>> Speaker 2: There was a question
of why not just plain node assert?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Good question.
Yeah, so actually,
I'll just demonstrate node assert.
That is a legitimate question.
So we'll say const assert
= require('assert'),
then we can say assert(1 === 2, and
'one is not two...) like on of those,
what on earth are you doing?
And then I can just say node
src/index.test.js and I'll get a failure.
And so that's cool.
There are a couple reasons that I
like to have a testing framework and
an assertion library together.
So first the testing framework is nice
cuz it gives you a watch capability,
it gives you the ability to structure
your test nicely, it'll automatically or
it can run a whole suite
of tests together.
And then you can have it be running
that whole suite in watch mode, and
then just say, okay, I only wanna do this.
So it comes with a lot of features,
and the output is a lot nicer.
And then on the other side of things,
with just the assertions stuff,
I like Chai just because I feel like
it's more expressive than assert is.
But if assert is your jam then like put
it on a peanut butter and jelly sandwich.
Just kidding,
I don't even know it listen to it.
I guess.
Yeah, so good question.
I think that's it's important
to evaluate your options.
Sweet, so let's do this.
Actually, one thing that we're gonna
do just first of all is I have,
there's a plug-in for Mocha for ESLint.
So we're gonna open up our
ESLint RC file here, and
we're gonna add kentcdodds/mocha.
In which I configure the Mocha plug-in
to make it a little bit nicer for
us, and to make sure we don't
make common Mocha mistakes.
Then in here we're gonna
say use strict and
we'll add var expect =
require('expect').chai.
Goodness, yeah,
I need to go to my package JSON.
Actually no, sorry, nevermind.
Don't worry about that.
Okay so then we'll go to,
the next line and say,
describe, so we're using, yeah,
Mocha global called describe,
where we're going to describe
the StarWarsNames module.
And that will be described by a function
that contains all of our test assertions
in here.
And our first test is simply going
to be that it('should work').
So we're not actually going
to test any functionality,
we're just gonna make sure that we
have mocha and chai set up together so
that we can start testing functionality.
So we'll say expect(true).to.be.false,
we'll start out with a failing test.
To make sure that our tests are like,
it's capable for our tests to fail.
And then, we'll fix it so
that we know that our test can pass also.
So, the next thing that we're going to
do is we're going to configure Mocha.
So, create a new file.
Where that configuration file goes is
in a test directory called mocha.opts.
>> Kent C. Dodds: So now you should
have a test directory with mocha.opts.
I never even noticed this, but
I've got a sweet little icon there.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Kent C. Dodds: I love that file icon
thing, that's probably one of my
favorite plug-ins, it's great.
In here, the mocha.opts file,
I don't wanna try and
teach you too much about the testing
framework because you might choose
something else, it's not totally relevant.
But if I were to just run
Mocha on the command line,
whatever I put in this opts file will
be added to the command line arguments.
And so, if I wanted to run
the source index test file,
I would say src/index.test.js.
So, that's the file I'm always gonna run
every single time I wanna run Mocha.
So I'm just gonna stick that in here,
so I don't have to type that anymore.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And
with that configuration all tidied up,
we're gonna just come over here to
the right here, with the package.json,
and I'm going to fix this test to
just say mocha, use the mocha binary.
And again, like I said when you ran the
set up script it already installed mocha
for you, so
that's why we didn't need to install it.
But if you want to,
you can just type it in here.
I think we're at 3.0.2 now.
What you had installed was 3.0.0, so
it looks like we may have a couple bugs
in here, but I think it'll be okay.
>> Speaker 2: You look like you had
completion on the on the version.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, I don't know
what's doing that but I love it.
I just noticed that yesterday cuz I
normally don't like type versions in here,
I normally just npm install.
I have no idea what's doing that.
But yeah, that's so cool.
>> Speaker 2: So
it's actually reaching out to npm for
that
>> Kent C. Dodds: Presumably yeah,
I expect it probably has a cache or
something cuz npm probably is not
quite that fast but maybe so.
So yeah now you can you should
be able to say npm run test or
pro tip npm test or another pro tip,
npm t, all of those are the same.
And you'll get a failure if you don't
get a failure than something is wrong.
Cannot find module expect.
I know what's wrong, it's not called
expect, it's called chai, sorry.
So it should be you should be requiring
chai and actually, it should be expect.
I mixed those two things up.
There we go,
now you should get something like this.
Does anybody need to see anything?
Any files?
Because I was all over the place.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay,
let me pull up the questions here.
>> Kent C. Dodds: Okay, yeah,
and Matthew got me, he got it.
Okay, so great.
Let's go ahead and fix this.
We had this describe
expect true to be false,
we're gonna change that back to true or
to what it should be, to true.
And then now when we run npm
t then it runs our tests,
says it should work with a check mark and
we're good.
Anybody have that going?
Yeah, raise your hand if you're online.
>> Kent C. Dodds: And with that actually
I think we're pretty good, pretty set.
We also wanted to add
the watch command as well.
Yeah, we got a couple of raising hands.
Mocha is not defined for Ivan.
Make sure that your set up script ran.
If you're having trouble with Mocha is
not defined, what you should check first
is in your node_modules.bin directory,
this will have a bunch of
sim links that point to other files
in your known modules directory.
What you're looking for
is a mocha, if you don't see that,
then your install script probably
didn't work for some reason and
you just want to say npm
install --save-dev mocha.
Some more npm pro tips for
you, save-dev can be
shortened to -D, and
install can be shortened to i.
And if you like typing even less,
then you can create an alias for
npm install and just do ni,
so I have an alias for that.
Also, nicache, I have an alias for that.
Here, I'll show you what that is.
So it's npm install with a cache min and
it'll hit the cache.
So I can be totally offline and
install stuff still.
Just comes from my cache, which is cool.
Okay, side note.
>> Speaker 2: That test file
you had in your source,
is there any reason to segregate
that to a different directory?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Yeah, I was waiting for
somebody to ask, cuz most people
would put it in a test directory.
So in a small library,
there's really no reason to not do that.
I just kinda do it out of habit.
And the reason that I do that
is in lots of applications,
this is a library, but in applications,
you'd have a source directory and
a test directory, and
they're supposed to mirror each other.
And as the project grows, then you're like
okay, I move to the controller to this
directory, now I have to go to the test
and move it to that directory.
And so you wind up with a situation
where these things are out of sync.
Unless you write some tooling to
ensure that they stay in sync.
And so, it becomes harder and harder for
new people to come into the library and
know whether tests exist for
the library or for the project.
And so, I like to co-locate things and
I have a blog post about this.
Maybe somebody can look it up and
put it in the chat.
It's called what code comments can
teach us about scaling and code base.
That explains why it's a good
idea to co-locate things.
You can read that for
more on that argument.
Yeah, question
>> Speaker 2: Did you cover what's
the difference between --save and
--save-dev?
>> Kent C. Dodds: Good question,
so it's basically whether or
not it will wind up being saved to your
dev dependencies or to your dependencies.